(water burbling)
USHIO: Hey, Shinpei.
SHINPEI: Hmm?
Close your eyes for a sec.
SHINPEI: Hey, wait! Uh, what?
There we go. Open them now.
SHINPEI: What... What did you do?
USHIO: I got you a gift.
SHINPEI: I... I don't understand.
USHIO: Come on, Shinpei.
When was the last time you came home?
SHINPEI: Um, after I graduated
from junior high, so two years ago.
No way. You never even came home
for the holidays.
SHINPEI: Um... I'm sorry.
Tell everyone I said "hi"
when you go back.
SHINPEI: What're you talking about?
Ushio? You're coming, too...
I can't go with you.
(static)
Shinpei. You have to find me, okay?
Please don't forget.
What? Hang on! You can't go!
Take care of Mio. Please look after her.
SHINPEI: Ushio!
(grunting)
What the...
(gasps)
(whimpers)
I didn't mean to, uh...
SHINPEI: I'm sorry, I'm sorry!
-I... I didn't mean to!
-(slaps)
I... I'm sorry. I swear!
HITOGASHIMA
SHINPEI: Man, what a weird dream.
It almost got me
in some really serious trouble.
Calm down, calm down. In these moments...
I need to relax and see the big picture.
That was the first time
I've ever been slapped like that.
Okay. I think I'm calm.
MAN (over PA): Good afternoon.
We'll arrive in Hitogashima shortly.
Oh.
SHINPEI: At the heart
of Wakayama Prefecture,
there's an island
in the Kitan Strait Hitogashima.
(tranquil music)
It's home to 700 people.
It's known for yomogimochi
and salted squid.
It's a small island supported
by tourism and fishery.
And I'm coming home
for the first time in two years.
I'm back in my hometown...
(cicadas chirping)
...for the funeral of my childhood friend,
Ushio Kofune.
-(birds chirping)
-(sighs)
(rattling)
Oops.
MIO: Hey!
-Huh?
-Welcome home, Shin-chan!
(laughs)
Hey!
Mio?
You have a nice trip?
I want to hear everything!
Ah!
(yelps)
(Mio yelps)
Hey! What are you doing?
(gasps)
I was all sweaty and gross,
so I thought I'd take a little dip.
SHINPEI: I'm glad to see
you're doing well.
SHINPEI: Mio Kofune
is Ushio's little sister.
There's no way she's doing all right,
so soon after her sister died.
"Take care of Mio. Look after her."
Huh, okay.
SHINPEI: Come on.
You sure you're okay?
(Mio gasps softly)
MIO: The sea is so salty.
(cicadas chirping)
MIO: So what's Tokyo like?
Been to Shibuya? Shibuya!
SHINPEI: Nah, I don't go out that much.
(Mio sneezes)
Man, I got snot all over my towel.
SHINPEI: I didn't need to know that.
-Yeah. That sounds good.
-SHINPEI: How's the restaurant?
-Bring that with you, for sure.
-Well, it's been super busy.
Makes sense.
SHINPEI: The restaurant's always busy
during the summer.
MIO: The thing is,
I think it brings too many strangers here.
These days, even the people I know
feel like strangers sometimes.
You don't say.
So many tourists come here
this time of year.
(chuckles)
What is it?
Shin-chan! You lost your country twang!
Huh? I did?
MIO: Tokyo rubbed off on you.
SHINPEI: What? No way!
(leaves rustling softly)
SHINPEI: We walked all the way
to the funeral home
talking about nothing in particular.
FUNERAL OF USHIO KOFUNE
(bell ringing)
(theme music)
USHIO KOFUNE FUNERAL CEREMONY
SHINPEI: When I lost
my parents ten years ago,
the Kofune family took me in.
That's why Ushio was
both a close childhood friend
and a sister to me.
The day before I left the island,
Ushio wanted me
to make some curry for her.
But all I said was, "Maybe next time."
But there was no "next time."
WOMAN 1: It's just so tragic.
What a shame.
I can't imagine how hard
-this must be for Shinpei.
-WOMAN 2: Did you hear what they said?
About Ushio's body?
Doctor Hishigata did a full blown autopsy.
WOMAN 3: An autopsy?
Wow, that sounds really serious.
(camera shutter clicks)
Huh?
MAN: Excuse me, who was that?
No photos allowed in here!
SHINPEI: They used a flash?
-Ugh!
-SOU: Shinpei!
(sobbing)
So glad you finally came back!
SHINPEI: Sou!
Ushio was just trying to save
a drowning child.
She was swept away.
I was... I was there, but I couldn't...
(sobs)
I'm sorry, Shinpei.
Please, I'll do anything!
(sobs)
Go ahead, hit me as much as you want.
(crying)
(Shinpei grunts softly)
-Huh?
-I'm not going to do anything like that.
Seeing everyone cry like this,
it actually calms me down a little.
Shin... Shinpei.
HITOGASHIMA HALL
Hey. I heard your old man performed
the autopsy on Ushio.
But it was just an accident at sea, right?
See that girl over there?
Huh?
SOU: Shiori Kobayakawa.
You know, from Koba Mart.
Oh. She's a lot bigger now.
Yeah, she's in third grade.
SOU: She's the girl
who Ushio tried to save from drowning.
Can you imagine?
So that's her, huh?
SOU: That poor girl.
She's so traumatized
that she hasn't said a word since.
SHINPEI: That's terrible.
It's time to carry the casket.
-Shinpei, will you...
-SHINPEI: Uh...
Could you give us a hand?
Yes!
I'll call you tonight
and fill you in on the rest.
Mm.
FUNERAL OF USHIO KOFUNE
(coffin thuds)
(wind gusting)
(waves crashing)
(dog barking in distance)
ALAIN: Ah. Hey. Sorry I took so long
to get back, Shinpei.
Welcome back, Alain.
Welcome home!
(exhales heavily)
That Mr. Karikiri sure can talk.
Mio. Aren't you supposed to be helping
with the cooking?
Come on, don't be silly,
my only job is eating!
It's almost finished.
Boy, that smells great.
Ushio always used to love that.
SHINPEI: Mio, could you set
the table, please?
MIO: We'll set a plate for you too, sis.
It's been so long since I had your curry!
Thank you for this meal.
(bell ringing)
(humming)
Hmm?
What the... What are you up to, Mio?
You're just staring at your own house?
Did you get into... a fight with someone?
(bell ringing)
(waves crashing)
SHINPEI: Hmm.
Right. Okay.
Why did she need an autopsy?
SOU: Ah.
You know, that's just a rumor.
People love gossip.
It wasn't a full autopsy.
My dad helped examine her body.
So...
(Sou sighs)
SHINPEI: So it's nothing.
SOU: Well, here's the thing.
There was something on her neck.
-Ligature marks.
-Huh?
SHINPEI: Ligature marks?
That's right.
It's a sign
that she might've been strangled.
What?
In other words,
it's very possible that she was murdered.
(Shinpei gasps)
(ominous music)
SOU: On that day,
we went to the beach by the school,
there are never any tourists down there.
Ushio saw Shiori drowning offshore
and she jumped in right away.
Mio and I jumped in right after that,
but I didn't see anyone suspicious.
SHINPEI: Do you think other people know
about the ligature marks?
Of course not!
It's just Mio, Alain, the police,
and my old man.
They're the only ones who know.
But with what happened,
the police decided to rule out murder.
They called it an accident
and closed the case.
(grumbles)
Got it.
(knocks on door)
Huh?
I understand. Thank you.
Oh. Mio.
Hi there. This is the necklace
she was wearing that day.
(gasps)
MIO: I think that she would have
wanted you to have it.
SHINPEI: So this was Ushio's?
-(Mio sobs softly)
-Hey. What's going on? What are you doing?
Could... Could you dry yourself off?
MIO: Oh, Shin-chan.
(gasps)
(Mio sobbing)
She's gone forever.
I'll never see her again.
(crying)
I just hate that. I hate it!
Mio...
MIO: I'll never forgive
the person who took her life.
(gasps)
Hey, hold on, Mio. Do you...
Do you know something?
Mm-hm.
-(blows nose)
-(grunts)
Aah!
Come on, Mio!
Sorry. It's nothing, forget it.
Go ahead and take a bath.
(sniffles)
I have a feeling sis would be mad
if she saw me crying like this.
No more crying, starting tomorrow.
Look at that!
Mm.
-Shinpei!
-Mm?
Gosh, thank you!
I'll take good care of it!
SHINPEI: She kept it all this time.
(sobbing)
(waves crashing)
BISTRO KOFUNE
SHINPEI: They say it's always best
to stay busy to help cope with a loss.
I'm sure Alain and Mio
totally agree with that.
I know I do.
Hey, Shinpei! Come here!
Yes?
So, did ya happen to find
who you were looking for?
Huh? I was looking for someone?
Yeah, I'm pretty sure
you said so this morning.
You said you were looking for this woman,
she had glasses and really big boobs?
Huh? Wait, are you positive
that was me you saw?
(snickers)
I think you've had too much
to drink, Mr. Nakamura.
Good afternoon, sir!
Ah! God, it's boiling out there today!
I'll take the usual, okay?
What a day, it's a real scorcher.
(Tetsu sighs)
SHINPEI: This is Tetsu Totsumura.
He's a relative of the Kofunes,
and he's a police officer
at the only station on the island.
WEEKLY SUPER H
Excuse me. You said the usual?
Wait, whoa! Well, if it isn't Shinpei!
Oh, listen. About Ushio, well,
you know what I...
Testu! Good to see you!
Hey, Mio. Cute as always!
You want your usual Lunch Special
with fried shrimp and medium rice?
(Tetsu laughs)
TETSU: Correct!
What happened this morning?
I didn't see you come around
for breakfast.
TETSU: That's right. Just listen to this.
This is serious business.
The entire Kobayakawa family
just completely disappeared.
-(gasps)
-Hm... Kobaya.
SOU: Shiori Kobayakawa. She's the girl
Ushio tried to save from drowning.
Disappeared?
TETSU: Koba Mart was still closed
at eight o'clock as of this morning.
So their neighbor, Shiomi, decided
to take a quick peek inside their house.
And it was totally empty inside!
(Shinpei gasps)
TETSU: Well, that store was always
up to its neck in debt.
They might just be running
from their lenders.
-(Mio whimpers)
-Hey.
-Hey, Mio!
-(Shinpei grunts)
Mio! Where are you going?
LUNCH SPECIALS
ALAIN: Here you go.
Ooh!
(clicks tongue)
-(birds chirping)
-(truck honks in distance)
(panting)
DAILY GOODS
KOBA MART
YOMOGIMOCHI
(approaching footsteps)
SHINPEI: I just saw them
at the funeral yesterday.
The Kobayakawa family.
Mm.
I'm sorry that I left.
It's okay.
Shiori has been acting
kind of weird lately.
Yeah.
I heard she stopped talking
after the accident.
MIO: No, not that.
SHINPEI: Hm?
MIO: I meant before that. Maybe last week?
She said something strange.
She said she saw something
when she went bug catching
on Mount Takanosu.
What was it?
She said she saw a girl
who looked just like Shiori.
MIO: And after that day she said
she felt like she was being watched,
like there were eyes on her everywhere.
What did she mean by that?
There was just some kinda look alike?
NEZU: That sounds like a shadow to me.
(both gasp)
(whispers)
Who is this guy?
A fisherman. Name's Nezu.
Sounds like a shadow sickness
you're talking about.
Shadow?
NEZU: It's a curse, a local disease
that spreads all over the island.
Hadn't heard of too many recent cases
around these spots,
but it was pretty common before the war.
If you're unlucky enough to catch it,
you'll start seeing the shadow.
(both gasp)
Once you see it, your days are numbered.
(gasps)
NEZU: The shadow kills you quickly.
Then it takes the figure of its victim
and doesn't stop
until it kills their whole family.
That's the legend, anyway.
Anyone who catches the shadow sickness
has to be purified at the Hiruko shrine.
That's what my gramps used to say.
SHINPEI: What the heck was that?
-MIO: Hey, Shin-chan.
-Hm?
MIO: When I was little,
my grandma always told me the same thing.
Do you know anything about the shadows?
I, uh... Not really. It's a superstition.
Don't you think it is?
Right. But I swear that I...
I swear that I saw it.
I saw Sis's shadow.
(gasps)
MIO: It was just three days
before she died.
We decided to go to an event
for habitat cleanup at Omotohama Beach.
(ominous music)
Then we saw it.
-Hey. Look up there. Mio.
-Huh?
What are you saying?
Don't joke about stuff like that, Mio!
I swear it's true!
It just vanished right in front of us.
Then three days later,
the accident happened.
-I'm worried about Shiori and her family.
-(heartbeats)
SHINPEI: Calm down. Calm down. Calm down.
(Mio sobs softly)
Mio. Did you tell anyone else
about what you saw?
(sobbing)
(breathes deeply)
SHINPEI: I said no more crying, remember?
(sobs)
Mm.
Let's go see Hiruko,
and we'll ask about the shadows, okay?
(gasps)
And what was that guy
talking about? Purification.
SHINPEI: Come on.
Uh, Shin-chan.
(Mio gasps)
SHINPEI: Hiruko is the nickname
for Hito Shrine, which sits
on the north side of the island.
(cicadas screeching)
(buzzing)
SHINPEI: No answer. That's weird.
No one's here.
Maybe we should try the one out front.
Mio?
(bell ringing)
Are you okay?
Huh?
Hey, look!
Did... Hey, did you see that?
I didn't get a good look.
MIO: It was...
I'm pretty sure it was Shiori.
SHINPEI: What?
-We have to follow her! Hurry up!
-Wait! Aah!
(waves crashing)
She's not here.
Do you think she went even further?
MIO: I think the old fort is up there.
But it's too dangerous to go that way.
Mio. Let's look at the big picture here.
There it is! Your big-picture method!
If that really was Shiori,
I don't understand
why would she run from us like that?
Good question. I'm not sure, either.
-(gunshot)
-(both gasp)
A gunshot?
(panting)
(groans)
(gasps)
SHINPEI: I know her,
she was the one on the boat.
(grunts)
Ah, Shin-chan! Don't just stand there!
Look, she's bleeding. Look! Help her!
MIO: What should...
What should we do, Shin-chan?
-I really messed up.
-Don't we?
All right, I'm going to go get help!
-Ugh! Mio! Ugh!
-(gasps)
(weakly)
Listen... Listen carefully.
I... It's... It's...
(gunshot)
(gasps)
Do you remember
what Dad always used to say?
(eerie music)
(whimpers)
Shin-chan.
MIOH: Until you wash the dishes
and wipe the table down completely,
you're not done cooking.
-(gunshot)
-(gasps)
(gunshot)
(static)
Ushio!
(grunting)
What the...
(engine rumbling)
(closing theme music)